[Serverless] Adds auto import page (#5560)
elastic/security-docs: docs/serverless/ingest/auto-import.mdx

---
slug: /serverless/security/automatic-import
title: Automatic import
description: Use automatic import to quickly ingest third-party data.
tags: [ 'serverless', 'security', 'how-to' ]
status: in review
---

<DocBadge template="technical preview" />

<DocCallOut title="Technical preview" color="warning">
This feature is in technical preview. It may change in the future, and you should exercise caution when using it in production environments. Elastic will work to fix any issues, but features in technical preview are not subject to the support SLA of GA features.
</DocCallOut>

This page explains how to use Automatic Import. Automatic Import helps you quickly parse, ingest, and create [ECS mappings](https://www.elastic.co/elasticsearch/common-schema) for data from sources that don't yet have prebuilt Elastic integrations. This can accelerate your migration to Elastic's SIEM, and help you quickly add new data sources to an existing SIEM deployment. Automatic Import uses a large language model (LLM) with specialized instructions to quickly analyze your source data and create a custom integration. 

> While Elastic has 400+ [prebuilt data integrations](((integrations-docs))), Automatic Import helps you extend data coverage to other security-relevant technologies and applications. Elastic integrations (including those created by Automatic Import) normalize data to [Elastic Common Schema (ECS)](https://www.elastic.co/blog/ecs-elastic-common-schema-otel-opentelemetry-faq), which creates uniformity across dashboards, search, alerts, machine learning, and more. 

Reviewer: I think I've usually heard it referred to as "the Elastic Common Schema," as the [ECS docs](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-reference.html) do. And this link should probably point to those docs, rather than a blog post?

Reviewer 2: Yep! What @joepeeples said ⬆️

<DocCallOut title="Tip">
Click [here](https://elastic.navattic.com/automatic-import) to watch a demo of how Automatic Import works before setting it up yourself.
</DocCallOut>

<DocCallOut title="Requirements">

- A working <DocLink slug="/serverless/security/connect-to-bedrock" text="Amazon Bedrock connector"/>. Automatic Import currently works with all variants of Claude 3. In this technical preview, other models are not yet supported.

> - A [security analytics complete](https://www.elastic.co/pricing/serverless-security) subscription.

Reviewer: Capped to match UI:
```suggestion
- A [Security Analytics Complete](https://www.elastic.co/pricing/serverless-security) subscription.
```

- A sample of the data you want to import in JSON or NDJSON format. 

</DocCallOut>

## Create a new custom integration

> 1. In your ((elastic-sec)) deployment, click **Add integrations**.

Reviewer: Serverless doesn't have `deployments`; it has `projects`. Let's avoid both:
```suggestion
1. In ((elastic-sec)), click **Add integrations**.
```

2. Under **Can't find an integration?** click **Create new integration**.

<DocImage url="images/auto-import-create-new-integration-button.png" alt="The Integrations page with the Create new integration button highlighted" />

3. Click **Create integration**.
4. Select an <DocLink slug="/serverless/security/connect-to-bedrock" text="Amazon Bedrock connector"/>. 
5. Define how your new integration will appear on the integrations page by providing a **Title**, **Description**, and **Logo**.  Click **Next**.
6. Define your integration's package name, which will prefix the imported event fields. 
7. Define your **Data stream title**, **Data stream description**, and **Data stream name**. These fields will appear on the integration's configuration page to help identify the data stream it writes to.

> 8. Select your [**Data collection method**](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/configuration-filebeat-options.html). This determines how your new integration will ingest the data, for example from an S3 bucket, an HTTP endpoint, or a file stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Select your [**Data collection method**](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/configuration-filebeat-options.html). This determines how your new integration will ingest the data (for example, from an S3 bucket, an HTTP endpoint, or a file stream).
```

9. Upload a sample of your data in JSON format. Make sure to include all the types of events that you want the new integration to handle. 

> <DocCallOut title="Best practices for sample data"> 

Reviewer: Nice use of a custom callout! It'd be nice to indent this under the step, for a slightly different visual flow, but I wouldn't wrestle with the MDX more than 5 seconds to try to do this. Definitely optional.

- The file extension (`.JSON` or `.NDJSON`) must match the file format.

> - Only the first ten events in the sample are analyzed; in this technical preview, additional data is truncated. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Only the first 10 events in the sample are analyzed; in this technical preview, additional data is truncated. 
```

- Ensure each JSON or NDJSON object represents an event, and avoid deeply-nested object structures. 
- The more variety in your sample, the more accurate the pipeline will be (for example, include 10 unique log entries instead of the same type of entry 10 times).
- Ideally, each field name should describe what the field does.
</DocCallOut>
10. Click **Analyze logs**, then wait for processing to complete. This may take several minutes.
11. After processing is complete, the pipeline's field mappings appear, including both ECS and custom fields.

<DocImage url="images/auto-import-review-integration-page.png" alt="The Automatic Import Review page showing proposed field mappings" />

> 12. (Optional) After reviewing the proposed pipeline, you can finetune it by clicking **Edit pipeline**. Refer to the [((elastic-sec)) ECS reference](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/current/siem-field-reference.html) to learn more about how field mappings should look. When you're satisfied with your changes, click **Save**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
12. (Optional) After reviewing the proposed pipeline, you can fine-tune it by clicking **Edit pipeline**. Refer to the [((elastic-sec)) ECS reference](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/current/siem-field-reference.html) to learn more about how to format field mappings. When you're satisfied with your changes, click **Save**. 
```

<DocImage url="images/auto-import-edit-pipeline.gif" alt="A gif showing the user clicking the edit pipeline button and viewing the ingest pipeline flyout" />

<DocCallOut title="Tip">
You can use the <DocLink slug="/serverless/security/data-quality-dash" text="Data Quality dashboard"/> to check the health of your data ingest pipelines and field mappings.

> </DocCallOut>

Reviewer: Are we expecting the user to do this _right here, right now_ in the middle of this procedure? It seems like it'd be disruptive. Either relocate the tip outside the procedure, or rewrite to make it clear when exactly they should check out the DQ dashboard.

13. Click **Add to Elastic**. After the **Success** message appears, your new integration will be available on the Integrations page. 

<DocImage url="images/auto-import-success-message.png" alt="The Automatic Import success message" />

14. Click **Add to an agent** to deploy your new integration and start collecting data, or click **View integration** to view detailed information about your new integration. 

<DocCallOut title="Note">

> Once you've added an integration, you can't edit any details other than the ingest pipeline, which you can edit by going to **Stack management → Ingest pipelines**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've added an integration, you can't edit any details other than the ingest pipeline, which you can edit by going to **Project Settings → Stack Management → Ingest Pipelines**. 
```

Using Automatic Import allows our customers to create new third-party data integrataions through the use of third-party generative AI models (“GAI models”). Any third-party GAI models that you may choose to use are owned and operated by their respective providers. Elastic does not own or control these third-party GAI models, nor does it influence their design, training or data handling practices. Using third party GAI models with Elastic solutions, and using your data with third-party GAI models is at your discretion. Elastic bears no responsibility or liability for the content, operation, or use of these third-party GAI models, nor for any potential loss or damage arising from their use. Users are advised to exercise caution when using GAI models with personal, sensitive, or confidential information, as data submitted may be used for training of the models or other purposes. Elastic recommends familiarizing yourself with the development practices and terms of use of any third-party GAI models before use.

You are responsible for ensuring that your use of Automatic Import complies with the terms and conditions of any third-party platform you connect with.

> </DocCallOut>

Reviewer: Seems like this big honkin warning should be at the top of the page, _before_ the user goes all-in and hands over their data by going through the steps above. It feels really buried down here, almost like we don't want folks to see it, even though we actually want the opposite.

Reviewer 2: Yes, agree 💯

---
slug: /serverless/security/automatic-import
title: Automatic Import

> description: Use Automatic Import to quickly ingest third-party data.

Reviewer 3: Could add `normalize` here, as it's an important aspect. 

Use Automatic Import to quickly normalize and ingest third-party data.

tags: [ 'serverless', 'security', 'how-to' ]
status: in review
---

<DocBadge template="technical preview" />

<DocCallOut title="Technical preview" color="warning">
This feature is in technical preview. It may change in the future, and you should exercise caution when using it in production environments. Elastic will work to fix any issues, but features in technical preview are not subject to the support SLA of GA features.
</DocCallOut>

Automatic Import helps you quickly parse, ingest, and create [ECS mappings](https://www.elastic.co/elasticsearch/common-schema) for data from sources that don't yet have prebuilt Elastic integrations. This can accelerate your migration to ((elastic-sec)), and help you quickly add new data sources to an existing SIEM solution in ((elastic-sec)). Automatic Import uses a large language model (LLM) with specialized instructions to quickly analyze your source data and create a custom integration. 

> While Elastic has 400+ [prebuilt data integrations](((integrations-docs))), Automatic Import helps you extend data coverage to other security-relevant technologies and applications. Elastic integrations (including those created by Automatic Import) normalize data to [the Elastic Common Schema (ECS)](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-reference.html), which creates uniformity across dashboards, search, alerts, machine learning, and more. 

Reviewer 4: It might be helpful to provide an example of what we mean by "other security-relevant technologies and applications".

> While Elastic has 400+ [prebuilt data integrations](((integrations-docs))), Automatic Import helps you extend data coverage to other security-relevant technologies and applications. Elastic integrations (including those created by Automatic Import) normalize data to [the Elastic Common Schema (ECS)](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-reference.html), which creates uniformity across dashboards, search, alerts, machine learning, and more. 

Reviewer 3: We may get some pushback on 'security-relevant' technologies, but as this doc lives in Security it makes sense. May need to adjust if there's another copy in o11y/platform docs at some point.

<DocCallOut title="Tip">

> Click [here](https://elastic.navattic.com/automatic-import) to watch a demo of how Automatic Import works before setting it up yourself.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Watch a [demo](https://elastic.navattic.com/automatic-import) of how Automatic Import works before setting it up yourself.
```

</DocCallOut>

<DocCallOut title="Requirements">

> - A working <DocLink slug="/serverless/security/connect-to-bedrock" text="Amazon Bedrock connector"/>. Automatic Import currently works with all variants of Claude 3. In this technical preview, other models are not yet supported.

Reviewer 3: Could we make a stronger statement that more models are coming soon?

- A [Security Analytics Complete](https://www.elastic.co/pricing/serverless-security) subscription.

> - A sample of the data you want to import in JSON or NDJSON format. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- A sample of the data you want to import, in JSON or NDJSON format. 
```

Author: I think I had a comma here before Janeen suggested I remove it in her review! :lol:

</DocCallOut>

<DocCallOut color="warning" title="Important">

> Using Automatic Import allows our customers to create new third-party data integrataions through the use of third-party generative AI models (“GAI models”). Any third-party GAI models that you may choose to use are owned and operated by their respective providers. Elastic does not own or control these third-party GAI models, nor does it influence their design, training or data handling practices. Using third party GAI models with Elastic solutions, and using your data with third-party GAI models is at your discretion. Elastic bears no responsibility or liability for the content, operation, or use of these third-party GAI models, nor for any potential loss or damage arising from their use. Users are advised to exercise caution when using GAI models with personal, sensitive, or confidential information, as data submitted may be used for training of the models or other purposes. Elastic recommends familiarizing yourself with the development practices and terms of use of any third-party GAI models before use.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Automatic Import allows users to create new third-party data integrations using third-party generative AI models (“GAI models”). Any third-party GAI models that you may choose to use are owned and operated by their respective providers. Elastic does not own or control these third-party GAI models, nor does it influence their design, training, or data handling practices. Using third-party GAI models with Elastic solutions, and using your data with third-party GAI models is at your discretion. Elastic bears no responsibility or liability for the content, operation, or use of these third-party GAI models, nor for any potential loss or damage arising from their use. Users are advised to exercise caution when using GAI models with personal, sensitive, or confidential information, as data submitted may be used for training of the models or other purposes. Elastic recommends familiarizing yourself with the development practices and terms of use of any third-party GAI models before use.
```

You are responsible for ensuring that your use of Automatic Import complies with the terms and conditions of any third-party platform you connect with.
</DocCallOut>

## Create a new custom integration

1. In ((elastic-sec)), click **Add integrations**.
2. Under **Can't find an integration?** click **Create new integration**.

> <DocImage url="images/auto-import-create-new-integration-button.png" alt="The Integrations page with the Create new integration button highlighted" />

Reviewer 4: Could we indent the images under their relevant steps? The steps seem a bit disconnected with the current indentation.

3. Click **Create integration**.
4. Select an <DocLink slug="/serverless/security/connect-to-bedrock" text="Amazon Bedrock connector"/>. 

> 5. Define how your new integration will appear on the integrations page by providing a **Title**, **Description**, and **Logo**.  Click **Next**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
5. Define how your new integration will appear on the **Integrations** page by providing a **Title**, **Description**, and **Logo**.  Click **Next**.
```

6. Define your integration's package name, which will prefix the imported event fields. 
7. Define your **Data stream title**, **Data stream description**, and **Data stream name**. These fields will appear on the integration's configuration page to help identify the data stream it writes to.
8. Select your [**Data collection method**](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/configuration-filebeat-options.html). This determines how your new integration will ingest the data (for example, from an S3 bucket, an HTTP endpoint, or a file stream).

> 9. Upload a sample of your data in JSON format. Make sure to include all the types of events that you want the new integration to handle. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
9. Upload a sample of your data, in JSON or NDJSON format. Make sure to include all the types of events that you want the new integration to handle. 
```

- Ensure each JSON or NDJSON object represents an event, and avoid deeply-nested object structures. 
- The more variety in your sample, the more accurate the pipeline will be (for example, include 10 unique log entries instead of the same type of entry 10 times).
- Ideally, each field name should describe what the field does.
</DocCallOut>
10. Click **Analyze logs**, then wait for processing to complete. This may take several minutes.
11. After processing is complete, the pipeline's field mappings appear, including both ECS and custom fields.

<DocImage url="images/auto-import-review-integration-page.png" alt="The Automatic Import Review page showing proposed field mappings" />

12. (Optional) After reviewing the proposed pipeline, you can fine-tune it by clicking **Edit pipeline**. Refer to the [((elastic-sec)) ECS reference](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/current/siem-field-reference.html) to learn more about how to format field mappings. When you're satisfied with your changes, click **Save**. 

<DocImage url="images/auto-import-edit-pipeline.gif" alt="A gif showing the user clicking the edit pipeline button and viewing the ingest pipeline flyout" />

> 13. Click **Add to Elastic**. After the **Success** message appears, your new integration will be available on the Integrations page. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
13. Click **Add to Elastic**. After the **Success** message appears, your new integration will be available on the **Integrations** page. 
```

---
slug: /serverless/security/auto-import
title: Automatic import
description: Use automatic import to quickly ingest third-party data.
tags: [ 'serverless', 'security', 'how-to' ]
status: in review
---

<DocBadge template="technical preview" />

<DocCallOut title="Technical preview" color="warning">
This feature is in technical preview. It may change in the future, and you should exercise caution when using it in production environments. Elastic will work to fix any issues, but features in technical preview are not subject to the support SLA of GA features.
</DocCallOut>

> This page explains how to use Automatic Import. Automatic Import helps you quickly parse, ingest, and create [ECS mappings](https://www.elastic.co/elasticsearch/common-schema) for data from sources that don't yet have prebuilt Elastic integrations. This can accelerate your migration to Elastic's SIEM, and help you quickly add new data sources to an existing SIEM deployment. Automatic Import uses a large language model (LLM) with specialized instructions to quickly analyze your source data and create a custom integration. 

Author: I'm flexible but I think the "quickly" is important here because this feature doesn't enable a completely new functionality - people could already create their own custom integrations - but it could take a lot of labor. This makes it much easier/faster. What do other reviewers think?

> This page explains how to use Automatic Import. Automatic Import helps you quickly parse, ingest, and create [ECS mappings](https://www.elastic.co/elasticsearch/common-schema) for data from sources that don't yet have prebuilt Elastic integrations. This can accelerate your migration to Elastic's SIEM, and help you quickly add new data sources to an existing SIEM deployment. Automatic Import uses a large language model (LLM) with specialized instructions to quickly analyze your source data and create a custom integration. 

Reviewer: I think we could omit this instance as @jmikell821 suggests, though I also agree with @benironside that in general, it's appropriate since Auto Import _does_ actually save time and effort. "Quickly" already shows up at the beginning of the paragraph and in the page description, so that establishes the idea pretty well.

On `SIEM`, our docs historically haven't used it much but I don't think that means we should avoid it — we know that Elastic is renewing its focus on SIEM as a core customer use case. I think the term itself works better as an adjective/descriptor ("a SIEM use case" or "a SIEM solution") than a noun, since the UI doesn't have anything called "the Elastic SIEM" or "Elastic's SIEM." Something like this:

```suggestion
Automatic Import helps you quickly parse, ingest, and create [ECS mappings](https://www.elastic.co/elasticsearch/common-schema) for data from sources that don't yet have prebuilt Elastic integrations. This can accelerate your migration to ((elastic-sec)), and help you quickly add new data sources to an existing SIEM solution in ((elastic-sec)). Automatic Import uses a large language model (LLM) with specialized instructions to quickly analyze your source data and create a custom integration. 
```

☝️ This also omits the first sentence, which seems unnecessary — I'd be surprised if a page called "Automatic Import" _didn't_ explain how to use Automatic Import.
